All right, so let's jump into DevOps.
Advanced Interview Question Answers.
What DevOps tool have you used extensively?
Tell me some challenges you have first with it.
How does Jenkins fit into a cloud computing environment?
Explain with an example why use cloud formation when you can directly call APIs from Jenkins file to
provisioning resources?
How do you implement security in your DevOps pipeline?
What is the advantage of using Docker engines instead of ESI two?
How will you migrate a traditional organization to DevOps?
All right, folks, pause the video.
Think about the answers.
And then on pause to check the answers.
All right.
Question number one What DevOps tool have you used extensively?
Tell me some challenges that you have faced.
So obviously, this is testing that you actually have some hands on experience and not just theoretical.
Hopefully at this point, you went through all the Jenkins lecture and some of the critical workflows.
So some of the challenges of Jenkins are the plugins.
If you are using open source plugins, they could have security vulnerabilities as well as they could
go out of date.
So in that case, if you are relying heavily on a certain plugin, you could be facing some challenges
there.
Another big challenge of Jenkins is cost optimization.
So if you are running Jenkins on is to even if there is nothing to build or test, Jenkins will keep
running on easy too.
And you'll be paying the full price of the EC2.
And whenever you mention some challenges, always ensure you also mention the solution of the workaround
that shows that you actually researched and solved the problem.
No one likes when you just mentioned the problem because that's the easy part.
So for the plugin, you could say that your team actually writes critical plugins in that way.
They are secure and approved to be used and there is no risk for the cost optimization.
You could say that initially your team was running on easy too, but recently you can run Jenkins on
target.
So far that is a much cost efficient and easy to it.
Scales in more cost efficiently as well.
There is a blog on this.
I'm going to put the blog on the screen so you can go and study about it.
Next question How does Jenkins fit into a cloud computing environment?
Explain with an example, you could say that you can run Jenkins on any cloud as well as provisioned
any cloud infrastructure.
So you could give an example that Jenkins kept up with technological evolution in the beginning.
Jenkins could only be run in virtual machines such as ESI, too, but now you can run Jenkins in Docker,
container, Kubernetes, or even forget in a serverless way.
And from within the Jenkins, you can provision any services or any other cloud services.
So the Jenkins might be running on ESI too.
And let's say you want to provision another easy to or you want to deploy some code on to AC to provisioning
Kubernetes cluster, etc. You could do all that from Jenkins and then you can give a specific example
of a Jenkins workflow.
Maybe you could talk about the workflow or how you could use cloud formation from Jenkins to provisioning
a resource.
Next question.
Why use confirmation when you can directly call APIs from Jenkins file to provisioning cloud resources?
So just to elaborate, so when I say call it API, I mean, let's say you want to create a S3 bucket
so you can invoke it as S3, create bucket or meg bucket.
Similarly for Lambda, you can do it as lambda create function, etc. Instead of codifying it in cloud
formation, you should always use cloud formation because in case something fails, it becomes very
difficult to troubleshoot if you are using APIs directly.
Also, cloud formation gives a bunch of additional features such as drift detection in case someone
changes the resources without going through infrastructure called cloud formation.
Can detect that and send alarms it can do change set.
Let's say you already defined some ESI tools and then you are changing something.
Maybe you are updating the easy to type or deleting something before actually implementing that change.
Cloud formation can show you the impact of running this change.
So we call it change set.
It's going to show you that if you run this, these resources will be deleted, this resources will
be created, this will be updated, etc. And this could be used to either go forward with the changes
or not.
All this functionality is not possible if you are using it APIs.
Also, cloud formation enables you to replicate the infrastructure into other regions.
So if you want to codify everything in an API, that becomes very tedious, number one.
Number two, you cannot really put conditions and other ways to select certain things.
Using a spice.
But in cloud formation you could put logic like if the environment is dev.
Use a smaller instance if it is a production.
Use a bigger instance and you can take those and run into different accounts and replicate.
Much more easier than using it.
API is directly from Jenkins file.
Next question.
How do you implement security in your DevOps pipeline?
So I have a separate lecture on Devsecops, so make sure you study that next question.
What is the advantage of using docker engines instead of EC2?
Again, I have a separate hands on lecture on this, but in high level, each workload can be dependent
on different version of your python or underlying softwares.
With EC2, you have to insure the EC2 has all those proper versioned packages.
Docker Container.
You define your environment and you run your application in Docker agents with the tools you need,
so it makes it much more easier.
So there is no challenge down the line that, hey, my test environment had this version of the Python
production has this version, but I changed and tested everything in test and now it's failing in production
because of different version.
With Docker agent, you can specify the exact version that will be run in production, so that makes
it much more easier.
Next question How will you migrate a traditional organization to DevOps?
If you are going for a DevOps engineer job, then you will probably not ask this question.
But if you are going for a tech lead or going for a DevOps architect or team lead kind of position,
then you will get this question because generally for DevOps engineer jobs, you will be asked more
tactical questions.
But this how do you migrate a traditional organization to DevOps kind of tests, your strategic thinking,
whether can you go a little bit higher and move organizations to DevOps?
These are the high level steps using which you can adopt DevOps in your organization.
First stages, you have to select a proof of concept.
So basically you should select an existing project that you will implement DevOps for.
It's very important that it's not a do or die project.
Like if you fail to implement DevOps on this project, it should not be that, okay, DevOps is bad.
We are not going to adopt DevOps, so make sure not to select a critical project so that you can have
breathing room for experiments but make sure it is representative of the actual workloads.
Let's say you have a lot of Kubernetes, select a project which runs some low priority microservices.
So if you are able to do this with that project, you can scale it to other critical microservices.
Second thing is establish a center of excellence.
So this could be done either through cloud center of Excellence or a separate DevOps center of excellence.
So what this team will do is during the proof of concept, it will work with the application team and
it will standardize tools and best practices because there are so many DevOps tools out there, it will
be impossible for you if you keep on changing the tool.
So this team will actually evaluate all those different DevOps tools and say, All right, for now we
are standardizing on Jenkins Algo, KD, Ansible, etc. and they will also create examples with best
practices.
So let's say you are deploying a microservice into Kubernetes.
This team, along with this proof of concept development team, create the pipeline.
They will generate the Jenkins file and the other artifacts, and it will put it in a sharable repository
so that any other teams can grab it and then run with it.
Next thing is you need to scale your learnings whenever you need to migrate folks to DevOps or Cloud.
So this is relevant for cloud migration as well.
There are always three main components people process and technology.
So process and technology is easier because they are well defined people is the hard part because you
will face resistance.
Some folks will say, Oh, this center of excellence chose Jenkins, but GitHub actions is better,
right?
So there will always be resistance.
Only way to reduce the resistance, you have to educate people and give examples.
What are some of the examples of process and technology?
Because people is pretty self-evident.
So some of the process you need to define is cost control, incident management, securing workload,
etc. For your organization.
You need to identify the critical processes and then you have to define or give example of process.
As he was in technology.
So you have to show how can you use infrastructure as code, as part of incident management so that
there is no human error?
How will you use ICD?
How will you use content orchestration such as Kubernetes, with DevOps, etc.?
And it is a good idea.
I did this.
It's better if a application team comes and talks to other application teams.
I was part of the Cloud Center of Excellence and generally if it's just me going and talking to all
the application teams, they kind of see this as like a ballsy move.
What I did was after I moved one of the proof of concept projects, working with actual application
to production, I will bring that team with me.
I will I will do like some town hall or something or workshop, and I will bring the application team
and they talk about how they migrated from traditional deployment to DevOps.
What are some of the challenges they face?
Some learnings and where to go get their templates.
That actually helped a lot.
And the last stage is mass migration.
Once you scale it out, other folks are coming and attending your workshops, presentations, etc. and
then the company starts to migrate in a bigger fashion.
All right.
So these are the high level steps of adopting DevOps.
All right, folks, that's the advanced interview question.
Answer for DevOps.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you in the next lecture by.